# md2latex
This is quite simply a script that takes your Markdown file and converts it into LaTeX code. The reason behind this is quite simple: Markdown offers maximum ease of editing and writing with a minimum of hassle. Markdown outputs HTML by default, which is fine for the web, but less so if you want a print document. LaTeX on the other hand offers a maximum of power with a comparable maximum of hassle and most excellent print documents. Therefor a combination of the two offers the best of both worlds. Similar scripts probably exist but this was written mostly for the purpose of getting back into the groove in addition to the aforementioned.

## Usage
There are two modes of usage for this script. Firstly from a programmatical point of view: import the `MarkdownToLatex` object from `md2latex.py` and use it's `markdownify` function to convert whatever you pass to it into LaTeX code. Secondly, there's the command-line interface. Simply pass your Markdown file to it via `md2latex.py -i my_file` and it'll spit out LaTeX code. Invoke `md2latex.py -h` for additional options.

## Supported Markdown
Unless it's mentioned otherwise explicitly, the standard Markdown-code is used everywhere.

* Both styles of heading, either prefaced with any number of hashes or followed on the next line with either - or = are supported.
* Lists, either ordered or unordered are supported. Hard hand-wrapped or with items spanning multiple paragraphs.
* Hyperlinks (via the `hyperref` package) and images (via the `graphicx` package) are supported.
* Bolding, emphasis, and monospace are supported.
* Blockquotes are supported.

Some things are different though:
* Horizontal rules are not supported at this point in time.
* Support for footnotes is added. Wrap whatever you want to put in them between `^(` and `)` and it'll end up as a footnote.
* Bibliographical references are now a thing. 

The bibliographical reference part is the largest addition to the existing syntax. Key reason for adding it is that producing high-quality documents with proper references and bibliographies is one thing LaTeX can do perfectly, but Markdown has no support for presently. To use it insert at any point in the document the following on it's own line: `[referenceid]: "Bibliography entry" "Long title" "Short title"`. The `referenceid` is what will be used when inserting it into the document, just like with reference-style URLs. `"Bibliography entry"` is what will be put in the bibliography, usually really verbose but it can be whatever your citation style requires it to be. `"Long title"` is the full title of whatever you're citing. `"Short title"` a shortened version thereof, one which is typically used for citings after the first.

To use this write `^[referenceid][]` whereever you want it in your document. The script will automagically replace the first occurence with the long form title, and any subsequent references with the short form title. Overriding this behaviour is possible write either `^[referenceid][long]` for the long form title, or `^[referenceid][short]` for the short form title. This does not interfere in any way with the automatic process mentioned earlier. Lastly, the bibliography entry is generated by using `^[referenceid][bib]`. You are completely free in where to put it or how many times you want to use it. 

Any LaTeX code embedded in the Markdown should pass on to the output unmodified. So if you for example want to put a label on an image, simply add `\label{ref:graph}` to it's caption and `\reference{ref:graph}` somewhere else and it should work. Big blocks of LaTeX, like say equations, should work fine similarly.

## Limitations
It is key to remember that there are some substantial limitations to this. They mostly stem from the fact that a. LaTeX is a *lot* less forgiving than HTML and b. print documents have hard physical constraints and web documents do not. This applies foremost to the inclusion of images, which to be honest, is a royal pain in the ass in LaTeX. In order to keep things sane, no attempt to magically fix things will be made. What I'm saying is: some massaging of the LaTeX output/Markdown input might be required to create optimal results.

* Use of chapter level headings (aka single #) only works with `\documentclass{book}`.
* Hard wrapping things is supported but might produce sub-optimal results with ugly linebreaking and such so use with care.

## Miscellany
This was written with Python 3 in mind so as long as you got that it should work.